# CloudComputingfinalproject
Final project for cloud

URL Link for the analyses:
https://app.powerbi.com/view?r=eyJrIjoiMjQ4NmMwYWUtMzgwYy00NzkzLWE1OWUtNGJjNzUyYjdiN2IzIiwidCI6IjY3NzgyNTdmLThiY2YtNDA0Mi1hY2YxLTRmZDc3ZmQ5MzY2ZiIsImMiOjEwfQ%3D%3D

Instruction:
Upload the database via Get Data on the bottom left.\n
Do your report with the graphical tools on the top right
Filter via page filter and report filter to compare the attributes from on column or from 2, use advance filtering instead of basic to perform specific slice and dice function or rollup drill down function.
Save the report on to your dashboard
Share the dashboard with people you want to read but not write
Share the report with people you want to be able to access the data.
Your done.
an average report takes about 20-30 minutes to generate.

Cloud function:
in theory the script does not need a local server at all , power BI allows u to pull files from Microsoft one drive....
https://pypi.python.org/pypi/python-onedrive/15.10.5 or https://github.com/OneDrive/onedrive-sdk-python

unable to perform the commands due to the code does not work for python 3 or access error.
it even possible to save the link as csv file and do the data cleaning in your ram and upload it to your Microsoft one drive account, skipping the need for any data to be stored in any local hard disk.
Making this project fully cloud enabled.
Note: Power BI has a desktop application that allows for data cleaning and type indication of the attributes as csv files are stored as text, but for the purpose of this project I will not be using the
offline application to fully use the cloud.

Core/Functional Requirements of business analysis(fulfilled):
1.The application is able to display data in traditional pie , graph, scatter and most commonly used display tools, enabling it to be used to make business decisions and even has an automated liner regression function making predication easier to display to upper management.
2.It is able to form traditional functions such as slice and dice roll down and roll up etc.
3.It is able to handle data from multiple sources such as csv, excel and cloud base data base making it flexible with data uploads.
4.User sharing is enable relatively easily and is done via sharing via the code or web URL generated by the cloud application.
5.User friendly is also demonstrated as interface was easily understood without a tutorial and playing another with the icons was an ease and in the event of a mistake the application is able to backtrack with relative Ease
6.Data was also size friendly as excel is unable to handle anything more than 5 thousand rows, but for this data sheet it was around the 20 thousand range.


Negative Points:
1.The dash Board generated report is able to be shared easily but is unable to do comparing of 2 attributes in the same column, to enable that the admin must give access to the report to an individual but is only limited to users with the same email type as him, example: I tired to enable sharing of the report with the lecturer , Wei but was unable to due to her email having @uwa and mind having @student.uwa but was able to share it with 2 of my follow class mates.
2.Cloud function has no data cleaning capabilities and unable to perform concept hierarchy , type allocation of a csv file, might give complications if users has no experiences with coding or data.
3.The basic function was easy to understand, but for more advance filtering, takes pro-long additional use of the program.
4.Data upload was also a negative point, as excel files had the restrictions of type. If a cell attributes does not match the heading or other cells types in the same column it will lead to an error upon upload.
for example "unknown as a string but 1,2 3 as int"

Secondary function/non core functions(fulfilled):
1.Security wise , power BI is link to your uwa account and reports code are generated specifically by the admin and sharing of codes or link or QR code is a human risk and not a Security breach due to tech issues.
Report generated also can be save to your account and users can generate reports without touching your main report.
2.Sharing capabilities is also demonstrated above and power BI is also available on mobile making decisions on the go easier.
3.User can also upload specifics graphical representation using codes to generate such as python or matlib, giving flexibility to users.
4.Efficiency power BI has never taken a down time and can even be used offline by their desktop application and uploading back to the cloud when internet connectivity is available.

OFfline/small scale use:
Power bi desktop application can do what the cloud does, just the sharing function needs an active internet connection.

Suggestion for improvement:
Make data cleaning possible and comparing of 2 or more attributes possible in the dashboard and work on making data upload a more pleasant experience.

Credit:
None the whole analyse was done first name and using the database unit as a guide line.
